## [An analysis of surface water and ground water situation in Bengaluru](https://kavyasooraj981.github.io/dashboardfinal.html)

Indian cities are growing fast and creating a stress on urban infrastructure and most importantly on natural resources. This project focuses on the current situation and recent changes in the surface and ground water in Bengaluru. In the first part, the lakes of Bengaluru have been considered for surface water analysis. The lakes are currently under threat from encroachment activities and pollution. Urbanization parameters such as built up area, vegetation area, road network length, industrial area, and surface temperature were considered to perform buffer analysis around lakes to observe the change from 2000 to 2019. Water quality is measured using remote sensing band-ratio technique to compute its different parameters of chlorophyll, and turbidity and DOM. Surface temperature of the lakes is also an important parameter of water quality measurement. The second part of the project aims to identify the ground water prospects of Bengaluru Urban district using GIS and remote sensing techniques. Ground water potential is mapped considering factors such as rainfall, lineament, landcover, slope, soil type, and lithology. These are mapped using weighted overlay analysis and an AHP process to understand which areas have a higher potential of ground water. Traditional methods like dowsing, scientific methods like electrical resistivity method, Slingram, VLF methods provide results only for a smaller area. Remote sensing and GIS helps in better decision making, at a wide scale of area. The final step of the project is to map these layers of water scenario into a dashboard using front-end software of leaflet, and R programming language. flexdashboard R package was used to make the dashboard.

This was a project done as part of CDAC PGDGi programme. See **[this page](https://kavyasooraj981.github.io/dashboardfinal.html)** for the web dashboard produced as the output of this work. 

**Team members**: Shreya Paturi, Babitha Yadav, and Kavya Varma.  

**Tools used**: ArcGIS, QGIS, ERDAS Imagine, Google Earth Engine, RStudio and R Markdown with leaflet and flexdashboard
